Fundamental Beliefs
Holy Bible:

Hebrews 4:12 For the word of God is alive and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow; it judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart.

The C&S Church believe strongly in the Holy Bible and the Holy Trinity.  We believe that the Bible is the Word of God, fully inspired and without error in the original manuscripts, written under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and that it has supreme authority in all matters of faith and conduct 2Tim3:16.

All activities performed and observed in the C & S Church are biblical and Holy spirit inspired, in order to bring to reality or to bring down the heavens as practised by the Cherubim and the Seraphims of Heaven.  The Bible is our weapon of warfare to bring down strongholds and to build up. ‘The weapons we fight with are not the weapons of the world. On the contrary, they have divine power to demolish strongholds 2Cor10:4  As David, the prophet and King stated, we have a goodly  in-heritage (Ps.16:6).
White Prayer Garment:
Revelation 3:5 He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
White represents Righteousness

‘Let your clothes be white all the time, and let not oil be lacking on your head‘: Ecc 9:8

As true worshippers and according to scriptures the C&S Church wear white garment as a sign of true worship, fellowshipping in one accord with the heavenly hosts.  White is the colour of righteousness, purity, holiness and true worship. The Bible tells us that the angels in heaven are clothed in white, the priests and worshippers all in a white raiment worshipping in truth and in Spirit, the bible also says in the presence of Almighty,  ‘Surrounding the throne were twenty-four other thrones, and seated on them were twenty-four elders. They were dressed in white and had crowns of gold on their heads….Day after day and night after night they keep on saying, “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty–the one who always was, who is, and who is still to come.“‘ Rev4:4-8

The colour white is found many times in the scriptures and is often associated with white garments, white manna, white fields, white horses, white stones, white cloud, and white robes. However, even though the association is easy to conclude, yet the color white is clearly defined in Rev. 19:8 “And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.”

‘Let your clothes be white all the time, and let not oil be lacking on your head’: Ecc 9:8

 
Wearing of no shoes in Holy Sanctuary

“Do not come any closer,” God said. “Take off your sandals, for the place where you are standing is holy ground.” Exodus 3:5

When God called to Moses from the burning bush, the first thing God told him was, “Take your sandals off” (Exodus 3:5). Some 40 years later when God appeared to Joshua as the Israelites besieged Jericho, He again said, “Take your sandal off your foot” (Joshua 5:15)

Both times God said the ground they were standing on had become holy from His direct presence, and so they were to take off their sandals. A Sign of Reverence and Respect taking off your sandals was like the old custom of a man taking off his hat when entering a building or greeting a lady—it was a token of respect. Due to Gods presence, The ground was holy and therefore should be respected and not contaminated by wearing of shoes, just like wearing muddy shoes over a white carpet!.. People are to approach God with solemnity, reverence, and humility. Taking off sandals before entering a holy place, church or temple expresses an inward reverence through an outward behaviour in ones worship. This is practised in many religions including Muslims, Buddhists, Sikhs etc

 
Waist Girdle

Isaiah 22:21 And I will clothe him with thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thy government into his hand: and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.

Waist girdle stands for strength and an essential part of the armour of God, worn by the Levites as commanded by God, today its used by Gods people during prayer service, deliverance and healing. Red girdle representing the blood of Jesus used mostly and white girdles representing, holiness on Sundays. 1 Kings 18:46 – Then the hand of the LORD was on Elijah, and he girded up his loins and outran Ahab to Jezreel.

 
Diverse gift of the Spirit

 ..for to one is given the word of 1.WISDOM through the Spirit, to another the word of 2.KNOWLEDGE through the same Spirit, 9 to another 3.FAITH by the same Spirit, to another gift of 4.HEALINGS by the same[b] Spirit, 10 to another the working of 5.MIRACLES, to another 6.PROPHECY, to another 7.DISCERNING of spirits, to another different kinds of 8.TONGUES, to another the 9.INTERPRETATION of tongues..1Cor12:1-11

Prophecy, healing, speaking in tongues and interpretation

This is one of the principal gifts given to the C&S fold from above. The gift of prophecy is well known in the old testament from the Prophets of Old like Isaiah, Elijah, Elisha, Ezekiel, King David etc. Through the spirit of prophecy Prophet Isaiah and many more predicted the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ thousands of years before his arrival. Through prophecy Prophet Elijah decreed a seizure of rain for 3 years.  Prophecies are spiritual predictions of things which are to come, of hidden spiritual things revealed to chosen people of God. Since the spirit rules the physical. Ananias got a spiritual call to go to the straight street to lay hands on Apostle Paul who was then a Christian persecutor Saul so the scale of his eyes can come off. This is a spiritual revelation impossible for the thinking of man to reveal. (Acts8:1-4)

Prophecy encourages brethren to steadfastness in time of troubles, prophecy reveals the hidden things in darkness which is only visible to God who sees in darkness. When Daniel prayed for 21 days for deliverance, we learnt that the prince of Persia actually apprehended the angel of deliverance from day 1 of the prayer and took Archangel Michael to intervene before the answer was finally delivered (Daniel 10:13). This is all a spiritual revelation which natural eyes cannot see or human thinking can comprehend, hence the phrase ‘ there is more than meet the eye’…

 
Prayer and Fasting

Jesus answered, “..But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.” Matt17:21

Prayer and fasting is defined as voluntarily going without food in order to focus on prayer and fellowship with God. Prayer and fasting often go hand in hand, but this is not always the case. You can pray without fasting, and fast without prayer. It is when these two activities are combined and dedicated to God’s glory that they reach their full effectiveness. Having a dedicated time of prayer and fasting is not a way of manipulating God into doing what you desire. Rather, it is simply forcing yourself to focus and rely on God for the strength, provision, and wisdom you need.

Prayer is communicating with God your heavenly prayer, there are different types of prayers and different types of fasting, the C&S is gifted with Prayer warriors, Prayer Bands etc

 
Holy water

Holy water is water that has been blessed by a member of the clergy or a religious figure. The use of cleansing prior to a baptism and spiritual cleansing is common in several religions, from Christianity to Sikhism. The use of holy water as a sacramental for protection against evil. Holy water is also used for healing and deliverance, commonly used to bless parishioners at the beginning of every month. For blessings and protection.

 
Candle

Isaiah 11:2-3 (NASB). Including the Spirit of the Lord, and the Spirits of wisdom, of understanding, of counsel, of might, of knowledge and of fear of the LORD, here are represented the seven Spirits, which are before the throne of God.

The custom and praxis of lighting candles is a significant convention in church, communities, and families, originating from Old Testament times where an oil lamp was lighted to ‘sustain a perpetual flame.’ In The New Testament, they emphasize the sacredness of this light in Paul’s Letter to the Hebrews. ‘A first tent was prepared with the lampstand, the table and the bread of the presence; this is called the Holy Place’). A lighted candle represents JESUS the light of the world, Light overcomes darkness, Light represents Gods presence, hence the lighting of White candles, the Altar of the temple holds seven candles representing the seven spirits of God..Isaiah 11:2-3
