Cherubim and Seraphim church began to worship as a Christian body on
 Wednesday the 9th of September, 1925. It is commonly believed by 
members that the Lord God Himself established the church here on earth 
through Moses Orimolade Tunolase of the blessed memory with Captain 
Abiodun Akinsowon who was then a young lady but whose seven day trance 
actually marked the beginning of what is known as theCherubim and 
Seraphim church.


It is to be noted that at its inception, what today can be termed
 as Cherubim and Seraphim church was to the active participants then, a 
mere Bible study and prayer fellowship. In substance and nature, the 
church identifies with the African people. The church has never been 
under the control of any orthodox church in Nigeria, the church gained 
recognition and acceptance amongst the people for her gift of accurate 
predictions and ability to deliver people under satanic influence. The 
Church at inception was missionary in outfit and evangelical in concept.


This made the missionary group headed by late Captain Abiodun 
Akinsowon to establish various branches especially in the South Western 
part of Nigeria. Late Saint Moses Orimolade Tunolase was also said to 
have visited many towns in both the Eastern and&nbsp; Northern parts of 
the country, though he did not establish any church then. He used to 
direct his converts to any existing church of their choice.


Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church is a splinter group of the main body of Cherubim and Seraphim Church established by God through Moses Orimolade. This Church began in the North by adherents who were transferred to that of the country.


Moses Orimolade Okejebu, the son of Tunolase was born in Ikare- Akoko 
division now of Ondo state in Nigeria. Many myths, though believed to be
 real by members surround his birth and childhood. Oral and written 
accounts have it that while his mother Odijoroto, was pregnant with him;
 she experienced strange manifestations of the supernatural. The child 
spoke in her womb many times, sometimes greeting his mother as engaged 
in domestic cores. It was reported that once, as an invisible spirit, he
 helped her lift a heavy load of fire wood onto her head.

When his 
father, a great priest of Ifa oracle and a mighty warrior, Tunolase 
heard of these strange stories about the expected child from his 
youngest wife, he was greatly embarrassed. He went to consult another 
Ifa priest who warned him not to terminate the pregnancy because the 
child was going to be a powerful messenger of God in whose way nobody 
should stand. Reluctantly, Tunolase allowed the pregnancy to come to 
term and the prodigious baby was born in 1879.

Alarmingly, the day Moses Orimolade was born, he reportedly walked 
dragging his placenta along. His father was greatly disturbed. When the 
reigning king of the town heard about the wonderful child, he came to 
see the supernatural sight; the baby welcomed him with an elderly 
greeting. The king was sore afraid to hear this type of greeting from a 
day old child. Tunolase was shocked and enraged. The old man’s jealousy 
was ignited. Being a valiant dispenser of charms, feared the length and 
breadth of Ikare and deep into the heart of Nupe land, the father wanted
 the child dead, otherwise he threatened to commit suicide because, as a
 saying goes, “two masters cannot control a boat”. Old Tunolase was 
persuaded by relations and neighbours not to take such a drastic action.
 Nevertheless, he managed to cripple the young Orimolade. It was after 
this great appeal that he ordered the mother of Moses to take her child 
and leave the house for another place far away from him. Tunolase 
remained bitter toward his son Orimolade even until death.


HIS CHILDHOOD AND ADULTHOOD
In his childhood days, Orimolade was exposed to the church and was 
baptized and christened Moses. In the new light of Christianity, he was a
 marvel to clerics and a living miracle of God. He started to read the 
Holy Bible by divine will, not having been taught by anyone to read or 
write. When Moses Orimolade was about eight years old, he entered into 
the church called St. Stephen’s Church Missionary Society (CMS) in the 
night when everyone, including the minister of the church was asleep. 
The minister, whose house was near, as if dreaming was hearing melodious
 song from the church building. The voice was like the voices of about a
 hundred people. He was curious to know what was going on in the church 
since nobody informed him of any service that night and that there was 
no electricity in the town of Ikare as at that time. The church was 
brightly illuminated and powerful beams of dazzling light shone out 
through the little spaces in the window – shutters and the doors. The 
clergyman asked who the singers were. A lone voice answered; we are. To 
his amazement, it was the voice of the crippled child, Moses. How the 
child walked the long distance from his parent’s house to the church, 
how the church was filled with dazzling light and the angelic singings 
in the dead of night were miracles enough for the priest. The climax 
occurred when the door opened, and the priest saw the back of Moses 
briefly before he disappeared on spiritual wings.

As Orimolade grew, 
he was regarded as an angelic being. His performance in music was 
superlative. The songs he sang were original and divinely inspired. The 
words of the song he sang in the church are as follows:</p>
On the Mount above Jordan
I am called, I am called
By my favourites that had gone, that had gone,
I like to enter eternity with them
Where there will be no more parting for ever
Come home, come to the home of loveThe book of Jesus said to me that
Angels carried me home I will rejoice Jesus carries me home.
Orimolade had dread locks which is parents had tried to cut. They 
gave up in frustration when the twelfth razor broke. Late in his life, 
this dread locks usually spread out like an umbrella over the great 
prophet’s head whenever he ministered in revivals. He was later advised 
by elders to pack the locks in a cap so as not to scare people again. 
This explained one of the reasons why he always put on cap. At a point, 
he fell seriously ill to a state that the mother had lost hope. The 
brother did not even think that he could survive. They would have gone 
to bury him if not for the fact that he was still breathing. In the 
seventh year of sickness, God spoke to Moses that it was time for him to
 begin his mission here on earth. Moses instructed her mother to wash 
his legs with water from a running stream. As she did this, his legs 
became healed and were straightened and he was able to walk with them.


ORIMOLADE AND CHERUBIM AND SERAPHIM CHURCH

The history of Cherubim and Seraphim Church is woven around one man 
called Moses Orimolade Tunolase. Though just like any church founded by 
Africans, the Church members hold the view that the Church was founded 
by Almighty God through Moses Orimolade as no man can found a church 
except in so far as he is called and empowered by the Holy Spirit. This 
belief is codified in one of the church’s hymns:

Out of the darkness there’s a light shinning
In this band of Seraph
Holy Michael leadeth this Holy Band
And will lead us that day
Michael, Michael
Michael is the captain of the Seraph band
JAH-JEHOVAH founded this Holy band
No any son of man.


Orimolade was just an instrument used of God to establish the 
church. Moses Orimolade, the acknowledged founder of Cherubim and 
Seraphim never claimed expressly to be the founder. Between 1916 and 
1924 he visited many parts of Nigeria preaching the Christian Gospel 
before he finally settled in Lagos in July 1924. Cherubim and Seraphim 
Church was founded in 1925. It was not the intention of Orimolade to 
start a church. He was never a disgruntled member of any church. 
Omoyajowo has this to say concerning him (Orimolade) and the Cherubim 
and Seraphim Church;quite unlike most other African Independent 
churches, the C & S came into existence by sheer accident. It was 
not a separatist sect, nor was it directly the logical outcome of an 
organized series of evangelistic campaigns, Moses Orimolade was neither a
 disgruntled nor rebellious member of any denomination. He began as a 
general evangelist whose main concern was to win converts for Christ. To
 him, it was not important to what denominations his converts chose to 
belong; what mattered to him was that they should become Christians.He 
preached without discrimination in any church that was willing to listen
 to him”.

Orimolade was filled with Holy Spirit. Many miracles and healings
 were done by God through him. The immediate cause of the establishment 
of Cherubim and Seraphim Church was as a result of the supernatural 
experience of one Christianah Abiodun Akinsowon who was an indigene of 
Ijaiye in Egba land. She grew up in Lagos. She was a devoted Anglican 
who began to have spiritual experiences as early as 1925. This prevailed
 until 18th June, 1925 when she fell into a seven day trance which was 
interpreted as a malady. Orimolade the prophet was sent for, he prayed 
for her and she spoke to the prophet in spirit. After Orimolade’s prayer
 normalcy was restored. Those who heard the news of the spiritual 
experience began to rush to her guardian’s residence for prayer and 
vision. When it became unbearable for Mr. &amp; Mrs. W.H.A. Moyeitte, 
Abiodun’s guardian released her to Orimolade. For this reason, a crowd 
soon gathered every evening after the day’s job. This group was meeting 
only for prayer and Bible study. Many clergy men from various 
denominations were attending the programmes. This prayer and Bible study
 group later became a church and was named “Seraph” on September 9, 
1925. Orimolade had instructed members to fast and pray for three days 
after which a female member claimed to have seen “SE” in the sky. 
Another member said that he saw “RA” thus Rev. J.C. Berber from 
Ode-Irele in Okitipupa area interpreted it to be “SERAPH”. Later on, one
 Madam Johnson related that in her dream, she was commanded to inform 
Orimolade that the name “CHERUB” should be added. When the elders met 
the society was named “CHERUBIM AND SERAPHIM”. (C & S).
